good afternoon this is KO co chief
meteorologist Damon lane for your April
22nd 2014 noon weather briefing the big
weather story this week warm
temperatures coming in and the threat
for severe weather highs this afternoon
climbing up into the upper 70s about 80
degrees in Southwestern Oklahoma will be
very warm across the plains notice how
we see that warmth extending all the way
up past the Black Hills of South Dakota
in towards Montana and North Dakota
temperatures even climbing into the 60s
here as we go in towards Wednesday
afternoon a slight risk for severe
weather has been issued from the Storm
Prediction Center and that does include
Nebraska down through Kansas including
Wichita and into western Oklahoma into
the Texas Panhandle Oklahoma City
included in this slight risk here now as
we look at the namm wharf model for
tomorrow afternoon into the evening
about seven o'clock we are now beginning
to see thunderstorms having already
developed up in northwestern Oklahoma as
well as down in Southwestern Oklahoma
these storms will mainly have a hail and
a wind risk there will be a very low
tornado threat when that tornado threat
will be decreasing as we go throughout
the evening but these storms are still
likely going to pack a punch even as we
go up in towards around ten o'clock we
started watching those storms tomorrow
night coming right up along i-35 here
and coming into the metro we can see one
large area of thunderstorm activity
producing a lot of much-needed heavy
rainfall across northwestern Oklahoma in
the kansas and then more storms again
making the way in towards just west of
the okc metro as well as down near
Lawton Oklahoma cold front then begins
to move in as we go into early Thursday
morning these storms at about 3am are
going to be in eastern Oklahoma and
southern Oklahoma and then more storm
activity up in northwestern Oklahoma as
we bring in a cold front as we go into
Friday afternoon we start to see an
incredible amount of heat that starts to
move back in across the southern plains
temperatures from okc down the
southwestern oklahoma and into the big
country of texas climbing into the low
to mid 90s 80s across tulsa and there
will be a very low-end chance of a few
isolated storms that will be trying to
develop as we go in towards extreme
western Oklahoma for Friday afternoon
these two
are mainly contain a hail and a wind
risk and they will be very isolated so
we'll keep in about a twenty percent
chance of storms for Friday afternoon
now as we go into Saturday the Storm
Prediction Center has already
highlighted everyone in purple here that
does include Oklahoma City Wichita down
to Lawton as you go in towards san
angelo and Abilene Texas as having a
risk for severe weather now this is
beyond their 3-day convective outlook
where they do issue an official risk but
this right here would indicate that
we're thinking at least a slight risk
for severe weather as we go into
Saturday afternoon that also having the
chance of having hail wind and even a
tornado threat the amount of instability
that we are going to have across
Oklahoma and Kansas here is going to be
incredible when we have this red on the
map here that means that we're seeing
instability values that are going to be
up in this range right here that is a
lot of instability which means that we
certainly had the potential to see some
incredible storm activity if they happen
to develop and right now we're going to
be putting in at least a 40 to 60
percent chance of severe storms for
Saturday afternoon as we go into Sunday
that risk for severe weather is still
including Oklahoma City and much of
Oklahoma as well as eastern Oklahoma as
we watched these storms marching to the
e so it does appear that we are setting
up for at least a very busy next five to
seven days and we'll have the very
latest information coming in as far as
what the threat for severe weather looks
like for tomorrow as well as this
weekend coming up tonight on KO co five
News at five six and ten see you then